Life will follow the path it started upon, and will neither reverse nor check its course; it will make no noise, it will not remind you of its swiftness. Silent it will glide on; it will not prolong itself at the command of a king, or at the applause of the populace. Just as it was started on its first day, so it will run; nowhere will it turn aside, nowhere will it delay.
Sometimes even to live is an act of courage.
True happiness is to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence upon the future, not to amuse ourselves with either hopes or fears but to rest satisfied with what we have, which is sufficient, for he that is so wants nothing. The greatest blessings of mankind are within us and within our reach. A wise man is content with his lot, whatever it may be, without wishing for what he has not.
We suffer more often in imagination than in reality
Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body.
As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters.
It’s not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it.
No wind blows in favor of a ship without direction.
While we are postponing, life speeds by.
What need is there to weep over parts of life? The whole of it calls for tears.
If you don’t know, ask. You will be a fool for the moment, but a wise man for the rest of your life.
If you really want to escape the things that harass you, what you’re needing is not to be in a different place but to be a different person.
Don’t stumble over something behind you.
Every journey has an end.
The time will come when diligent research over long periods will bring to light things which now lie hidden. A single lifetime, even though entirely devoted to the sky, would not be enough for the investigation of so vast a subject... And so this knowledge will be unfolded only through long successive ages. There will come a time when our descendants will be amazed that we did not know things that are so plain to them... Many discoveries are reserved for ages still to come, when memory of us will have been effaced.
It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves more, that is poor.
It is not that we have so little time but that we lose so much. ... The life we receive is not short but we make it so; we are not ill provided but use what we have wastefully.
Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life.
Until we have begun to go without them, we fail to realize how unnecessary many things are. We've been using them not because we needed them but because we had them.
He who is brave is free
He suffers more than necessary, who suffers before it is necessary.
Only time can heal what reason cannot.
Putting things off is the biggest waste of life: it snatches away each day as it comes, and denies us the present by promising the future. The greatest obstacle to living is expectancy, which hangs upon tomorrow, and loses today. You are arranging what lies in Fortune's control, and abandoning what lies in yours. What are you looking at? To what goal are you straining? The whole future lies in uncertainty: live immediately.
If you live in harmony with nature you will never be poor; if you live according what others think, you will never be rich.
Enjoy present pleasures in such a way as not to injure future ones.
Life is like a play: it's not the length, but the excellence of the acting that matters.
People are frugal in guarding their personal property; but as soon as it comes to squandering time they are most wasteful of the one thing in which it is right to be stingy.
The sun also shines on the wicked.
It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it. Life is long enough, and a sufficiently generous amount has been given to us for the highest achievements if it were all well invested. But when it is wasted in heedless luxury and spent on no good activity, we are forced at last by death’s final constraint to realize that it has passed away before we knew it was passing. So it is: we are not given a short life but we make it short, and we are not ill-supplied but wasteful of it… Life is long if you know how to use it.
Every new beginning comes from some other beginning's end.
Often a very old man has no other proof of his long life than his age.
It is not the man who has too little that is poor, but the one who hankers after more.
Anger, if not restrained, is frequently more hurtful to us than the injury that provokes it.
Nothing is more honorable than a grateful heart.
We should every night call ourselves to an account; What infirmity have I mastered today? What passions opposed? What temptation resisted? What virtue acquired? Our vices will abort of themselves if they be brought every day to the shrift.
While we wait for life, life passes
To wish to be well is a part of becoming well.
I am not born for one corner; the whole world is my native land.
You live as if you were destined to live forever, no thought of your frailty ever enters your head, of how much time has already gone by you take no heed. You squander time as if you drew from a full and abundant supply, though all the while that day which you bestow on some person or thing is perhaps your last.
It is difficult to bring people to goodness with lessons, but it is easy to do so by example.
It's not because things are difficult that we dare not venture. It's because we dare not venture that they are difficult.
Nothing is burdensome if taken lightly, and nothing need arouse one's irritation so long as one doesn't make it bigger than it is by getting irritated.
It is more civilized to make fun of life than to bewail it.
The mind that is anxious about future events is miserable.
Whatever can happen at any time can happen today.
Of this one thing make sure against your dying day - that your faults die before you do.
What progress, you ask, have I made? I have begun to be a friend to myself.
True happiness is to understand our duties toward God and man; to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence on the future; not to amuse ourselves with either hopes or fears, but to rest satisfied with what we have, which is abundantly sufficient.
The best ideas are common property
No man is crushed by misfortune unless he has first been deceived by prosperity
But when you are looking on anyone as a friend when you do not trust him as you trust yourself, you are making a grave mistake, and have failed to grasp sufficiently the full force of true friendship.
we cease to be so angry once we cease to be so hopeful
What is harder than rock? What is softer than water? Yet hard rocks are hollowed out by soft water?
The willing, Destiny guides them. The unwilling, Destiny drags them.
As far as I am concerned, I know that I have lost not wealth but distractions. The body’s needs are few: it wants to be free from cold, to banish hunger and thirst with nourishment; if we long for anything more we are exerting ourselves to serve our vices, not our needs.
If we could be satisfied with anything, we should have been satisfied long ago.
Can anything be more idiotic than certain people who boast of their foresight? They keep themselves officiously preoccupied in order to improve their lives; they spend their lives in organizing their lives. They direct their purposes with an eye to a distant future. But putting things off is the biggest waste of life: it snatches away each day as it comes, and denies us the present by promising the future. The greatest obstacle to living is expectancy, which hangs upon tomorrow and loses today. You are arranging what lies in Fortune’s control, and abandoning what lies in yours. What are you looking at? To what goal are you straining?
No man is more unhappy than he who never faces adversity. For he is not permitted to prove himself
Of all people only those are at leisure who make time for philosophy, only those are really alive. For they not only keep a good watch over their own lifetimes, but they annex every age to theirs.
What fortune has made yours is not your own.
We are members of one great body, planted by nature…. We must consider that we were born for the good of the whole
Remember that all we have is “on loan” from Fortune, which can reclaim it without our permission—indeed, without even advance notice. Thus, we should love all our dear ones, but always with the thought that we have no promise that we may keep them forever—nay, no promise even that we may keep them for long
So you must match time’s swiftness with your speed in using it, and you must drink quickly as though from a rapid stream that will not always flow.
All this hurrying from place to place won’t bring you any relief, for you’re traveling in the company of your own emotions, followed by your troubles all the way.
Expecting is the greatest impediment to living. In anticipation of tomorrow, it loses today.
I know that these mental disturbances of mine are not dangerous and give no promise of a storm; to express what I complain of in apt metaphor, I am distressed, not by a tempest, but by sea-sickness.
When you enter a grove peopled with ancient trees, higher than the ordinary, and shutting out the sky with their thickly inter-twined branches, do not the stately shadows of the wood, the stillness of the place, and the awful gloom of this doomed cavern then strike you with the presence of a deity?
The great blessing of mankind are within us and within our reach; but we shut our eyes, and like people in the dark, we fall foul upon the very thing we search for, without finding it.
Reason shows us there is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so.
If anyone tells you that a certain person speaks ill of you, do not make excuses about what is said of you but answer, "He was ignorant of my other faults, else he would not have mentioned these alone.” 
Wealth consists not in having great possessions, but in having few wants.
Don't explain your philosophy. Embody it.
There is only one way to happiness and that is to cease worrying about things which are beyond the power or our will.
Don't just say you have read books. Show that through them you have learned to think better, to be a more discriminating and reflective person. Books are the training weights of the mind. They are very helpful, but it would be a bad mistake to suppose that one has made progress simply by having internalized their contents.
It's not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters.
If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid.
Any person capable of angering you becomes your master; he can anger you only when you permit yourself to be disturbed by him.
He who laughs at himself never runs out of things to laugh at.
It is impossible for a man to learn what he thinks he already knows.
You are a little soul carrying around a corpse
I laugh at those who think they can damage me. They do not know who I am, they do not know what I think, they cannot even touch the things which are really mine and with which I live.
old me would be proud of the progress I’ve made and that’s all that matters 
First learn the meaning of what you say, and then speak.
Nature hath given men one tongue but two ears, that we may hear from others twice as much as we speak.
No man is free who is not master of himself.
Attach yourself to what is spiritually superior, regardless of what other people think or do. Hold to your true aspirations no matter what is going on around you.
The universe doesn't make mistakes.
Are you so bold as to claim the universe is wrong? The same force that created you, me, and over one hundred billion other humans? The same force that created the forests, grains, water, air, and light? I side with the true master.
Seek not the good in external things; seek it in yourselves.
He is a wise man who does not grieve for the things which he has not, but rejoices for those which he has.
The greater the difficulty, the more glory in surmounting it. Skillful pilots gain their reputation from storms and tempests.
Now is the time to get serious about living your ideals. How long can you afford to put off who you really want to be? Your nobler self cannot wait any longer. Put your principles into practice – now. Stop the excuses and the procrastination. This is your life! You aren’t a child anymore. The sooner you set yourself to your spiritual program, the happier you will be. The longer you wait, the more you’ll be vulnerable to mediocrity and feel filled with shame and regret, because you know you are capable of better. From this instant on, vow to stop disappointing yourself. Separate yourself from the mob. Decide to be extraordinary and do what you need to do – now.
Caretake this moment. Immerse yourself in its particulars. Respond to this person, this challenge, this deed. Quit evasions. Stop giving yourself needless trouble. It is time to really live; to fully inhabit the situation you happen to be in now.
Don't seek to have events happen as you wish, but wish them to happen as they do happen, and all will be well with you.
Do not try to seem wise to others.
Small-minded people blame others. Average people blame themselves. The wise see all blame as foolishness
God has entrusted me with myself. No man is free who is not master of himself. A man should so live that his happiness shall depend as little as possible on external things. The world turns aside to let any man pass who knows where he is going.
If evil be said of thee, and if it be true, correct thyself; if it be a lie, laugh at it.
If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid with regard to external things. Don't wish to be thought to know anything; and even if you appear to be somebody important to others, distrust yourself. For, it is difficult to both keep your faculty of choice in a state conformable to nature, and at the same time acquire external things. But while you are careful about the one, you must of necessity neglect the other
Some things are in our control and others not. Things in our control are opinion, pursuit, desire, aversion, and, in a word, whatever are our own actions. Things not in our control are body, property, reputation, command, and, in one word, whatever are not our actions. The things in our control are by nature free, unrestrained, unhindered; but those not in our control are weak, slavish, restrained, belonging to others. Remember, then, that if you suppose that things which are slavish by nature are also free, and that what belongs to others is your own, then you will be hindered. You will lament, you will be disturbed, and you will find fault both with gods and men. But if you suppose that only to be your own which is your own, and what belongs to others such as it really is, then no one will ever compel you or restrain you. Further, you will find fault with no one or accuse no one. You will do nothing against your will. No one will hurt you, you will have no enemies, and you not be harmed.
I must die. Must I then die lamenting? I must be put in chains. Must I then also lament? I must go into exile. Does any man then hinder me from going with smiles and cheerfulness and contentment?
If you wish to be a writer, write.
Remember that you ought to behave in life as you would at a banquet. As something is being passed around it comes to you; stretch out your hand, take a portion of it politely. It passes on; do not detain it. Or it has not come to you yet; do not project your desire to meet it, but wait until it comes in front of you. So act toward children, so toward a wife, so toward office, so toward wealth.
Difficulty shows what men are. Therefore when a difficulty falls upon you, remember that God, like a trainer of wrestlers, has matched you with a rough young man. Why? So that you may become an Olympic conqueror; but it is not accomplished without sweat.
Know you not that a good man does nothing for appearance sake, but for the sake of having done right?
Events do not just happen, but arrive by appointment.
It is better to die of hunger having lived without grief and fear, than to live with a troubled spirit, amid abundance
These reasonings are unconnected: "I am richer than you, therefore I am better"; "I am more eloquent than you, therefore I am better." The connection is rather this: "I am richer than you, therefore my property is greater than yours;" "I am more eloquent than you, therefore my style is better than yours." But you, after all, are neither property nor style.
Either God wants to abolish evil, and cannot; or he can, but does not want to.
Men are disturbed not by things, but by the views which they take of things. Thus death is nothing terrible, else it would have appeared so to Socrates. But the terror consists in our notion of death, that it is terrible. When, therefore, we are hindered, or disturbed, or grieved let us never impute it to others, but to ourselves; that is, to our own views. It is the action of an uninstructed person to reproach others for his own misfortunes; of one entering upon instruction, to reproach himself; and of one perfectly instructed, to reproach neither others or himself.
It is unrealistc to expect people to see you as you see yourself.
So you wish to conquer in the Olympic Games, my friend? And I, too... But first mark the conditions and the consequences. You will have to put yourself under discipline; to eat by rule, to avoid cakes and sweetmeats; to take exercise at the appointed hour whether you like it or not, in cold and heat; to abstain from cold drinks and wine at your will. Then, in the conflict itself you are likely enough to dislocate your wrist or twist your ankle, to swallow a great deal of dust, to be severely thrashed, and after all of these things, to be defeated.
Freedom is secured not by the fulfilling of men's desires, but by the removal of desire.
If someone tried to take control of your body and make you a slave, you would fight for freedom. Yet how easily you hand over your mind to anyone who insults you. When you dwell on their words and let them dominate your thoughts, you make them your master.
No great thing is created suddenly, any more than a bunch of grapes or a fig. If you tell me that you desire a fig, I answer that there must be time. Let it first blossom, then bear fruit, then ripen.
On the occasion of every accident that befalls you, remember to turn to yourself and inquire what power you have for turning it to use.
Who are those people by whom you wish to be admired? Are they not these whom you are in the habit of saying that they are mad? What then? Do you wish to be admired by the mad?
When a youth was giving himself airs in the Theatre and saying, 'I am wise, for I have conversed with many wise men,' Epictetus replied, 'I too have conversed with many rich men, yet I am not rich!’.
Don't live by your own rules, but in harmony with nature
You have power over your mind - not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength.
Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars, and see yourself running with them.
Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth.
Waste no more time arguing about what a good man should be. Be one.
If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.
When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love
The best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the injury.
Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together, but do so with all your heart.
Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present.
Whenever you are about to find fault with someone, ask yourself the following question: What fault of mine most nearly resembles the one I am about to criticize?
If it is not right do not do it; if it is not true do not say it.
Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself in your way of thinking.
When you wake up in the morning, tell yourself: the people I deal with today will be meddling, ungrateful, arrogant, dishonest, jealous and surly. They are like this because they can't tell good from evil. But I have seen the beauty of good, and the ugliness of evil, and have recognized that the wrongdoer has a nature related to my own - not of the same blood and birth, but the same mind, and possessing a share of the divine. And so none of them can hurt me. No one can implicate me in ugliness. Nor can I feel angry at my relative, or hate him. We were born to work together like feet, hands and eyes, like the two rows of teeth, upper and lower. To obstruct each other is unnatural. To feel anger at someone, to turn your back on him: these are unnatural.
Reject your sense of injury and the injury itself disappears.
The first rule is to keep an untroubled spirit. The second is to look things in the face and know them for what they are.
Do not act as if you were going to live ten thousand years. Death hangs over you. While you live, while it is in your power, be good.
Think of yourself as dead. You have lived your life. Now, take what's left and live it properly. What doesn't transmit light creates its own darkness.
You are a little soul carrying about a corpse, as Epictetus used to say.
You always own the option of having no opinion. There is never any need to get worked up or to trouble your soul about things you can't control. These things are not asking to be judged by you. Leave them alone.
What we do now echoes in eternity.
Do every act of your life as though it were the very last act of your life.
Do not indulge in dreams of having what you have not, but reckon up the chief of the blessings you do possess, and then thankfully remember how you would crave for them if they were not yours.
Perfection of character is this: to live each day as if it were your last, without frenzy, without apathy, without pretense.
Look back over the past, with its changing empires that rose and fell, and you can foresee the future too.
For it is in your power to retire into yourself whenever you choose.
The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way.
Remember that very little is needed to make a happy life.
Casting aside other things, hold to the precious few; and besides bear in mind that every man lives only the present, which is an indivisible point, and that all the rest of his life is either past or is uncertain. Brief is man's life and small the nook of the earth where he lives; brief, too, is the longest posthumous fame, buoyed only by a succession of poor human beings who will very soon die and who know little of themselves, much less of someone who died long ago.
Your days are numbered. Use them to throw open the windows of your soul to the sun. If you do not, the sun will soon set, and you with it.
Receive without conceit, release without struggle.
“At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: “I have to go to work — as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for — the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?”
So you were born to feel “nice”? Instead of doing things and experiencing them? Don’t you see the plants, the birds, the ants and spiders and bees going about their individual tasks, putting the world in order, as best they can? And you’re not willing to do your job as a human being? Why aren’t you running to do what your nature demands?
It is in your power to withdraw yourself whenever you desire. Perfect tranquility within consists in the good ordering of the mind, the realm of your own.
How ridiculous and how strange to be surprised at anything which happens in life
If someone can prove me wrong and show me my mistake in any thought or action, I shall gladly change. I seek the truth, which never harmed anyone: the harm is to persist in one's own self-deception and ignorance.
Humans have come into being for the sake of each other, so either teach them, or learn to bear them.
Do what you will. Even if you tear yourself apart, most people will continue doing the same things.
Though you break your heart, men will go on as before.
Do not act as if you had ten thousand years to throw away. Death stands at your elbow. Be good for something while you live and it is in your power.
It never ceases to amaze me: we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinion than our own.
Whoever does wrong, wrongs himself; whoever does injustice, does it to himself, making himself evil.
Or is it your reputation that's bothering you? But look at how soon we're all forgotten. The abyss of endless time that swallows it all. The emptiness of those applauding hands. The people who praise us; how capricious they are, how arbitrary. And the tiny region it takes place. The whole earth a point in space - and most of it uninhabited.
Do not waste what remains of your life in speculating about your neighbors, unless with a view to some mutual benefit. To wonder what so-and-so is doing and why, or what he is saying, or thinking, or scheming—in a word, anything that distracts you from fidelity to the ruler within you—means a loss of opportunity for some other task.
Because a thing seems difficult for you, do not think it impossible for anyone to accomplish.
Death smiles at us all; all we can do is smile back.
Be like the cliff against which the waves continually break; but it stands firm and tames the fury of the water around it.
The art of living is more like wrestling than dancing, in so far as it stands ready against the accidental and the unforeseen, and is not apt to fall.
Dig within. Within is the wellspring of Good; and it is always ready to bubble up, if you just dig.
Is your cucumber bitter? Throw it away. Are there briars in your path? Turn aside. That is enough. Do not go on and say, "Why were things of this sort ever brought into this world?" neither intolerable nor everlasting - if thou bearest in mind that it has its limits, and if thou addest nothing to it in imagination. Pain is either an evil to the body (then let the body say what it thinks of it!)-or to the soul. But it is in the power of the soul to maintain its own serenity and tranquility
Every living organism is fulfilled when it follows the right path for its own nature.”
Do not disturb yourself by picturing your life as a whole; do not assemble in your mind the many and varied troubles which have come to you in the past and will come again in the future, but ask yourself with regard to every present difficulty: 'What is there in this that is unbearable and beyond endurance?' You would be ashamed to confess it! And then remind yourself that it is not the future or what has passed that afflicts you, but always the present, and the power of this is much diminished if you take it in isolation and call your mind to task if it thinks that it cannot stand up to it when taken on its own.
I was once a fortunate man but at some point fortune abandoned me. But true good fortune is what you make for yourself. Good fortune: good character, good intentions, and good actions.
The blazing fire makes flames and brightness out of everything thrown into it.
Live out your life in truth and justice, tolerant of those who are neither true nor just.
Be tolerant with others and strict with yourself.
Everything - a horse, a vine - is created for some duty... For what task, then, were you yourself created?
The time is at hand when you will have forgotten everything; and the time is at hand when all will have forgotten you. Always reflect that soon you will be no one, and nowhere.
That which is not good for the swarm, neither is it good for the bee.
Stop wandering about! You aren't likely to read your own notebooks, or ancient histories, or the anthologies you've collected to enjoy in your old age. Get busy with life's purpose, toss aside empty hopes, get active in your own rescue-if you care for yourself at all-and do it while you can.
Never forget that the universe is a single living organism possessed of one substance and one soul, holding all things suspended in a single consciousness and creating all things with a single purpose that they might work together spinning and weaving and knotting whatever comes to pass.
Today I escaped anxiety. Or no, I discarded it, because it was within me, in my own perceptions — not outside.
Asia and Europe: tiny corners of the Cosmos. Every sea: a mere drop. Mount Athos: a lump of dirt. The present moment is the smallest point in all eternity. All is microscopic, changeable, disappearing. All things come from that faraway place, either originating directly from that governing part which is common to all, or else following from it as consequences. So even the gaping jaws of the lion, deadly poison, and all harmful things like thorns or an oozing bog are products of that awesome and noble source. Do not imagine these things to be alien to that which you revere, but turn your Reason to the source of all things.
